#summary The format of URIs containing encoded keys

= Introduction =

Secret keys may be encoded in QR codes as a URI with the following format:

{{{
otpauth://TYPE/LABEL?PARAMETERS
}}}

== Examples ==

Provision a TOTP key for user "alice@google.com":
{{{ 
otpauth://alice@google.com?secret=JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP
}}}

This Base32 encoded key "JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP" has the value:
{{{
byte[] key = { 'H', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o', '!', (byte) 0xDE, (byte) 0xAD, (byte) 0xBE, (byte) 0xEF };
}}} 

== Types ==

Valid types are *hotp* and *totp*, to distinguish whether the key will be used for counter-based HOTP or for TOTP.

== Label ==

The label is an URI authority used to identify which account a key is associated with. Valid values might include "Alice", "alice@google.com", or "google.com".

== Parameters ==

=== Secret ===

REQUIRED: The *secret* parameter is an arbitrary key value encoded in Base32 according to [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3548 RFC 3548]. 

=== Algorithm ===

OPTIONAL: The *algorithm*  may have the values:
 * SHA1 (Default)
 * SHA256
 * SHA512
 * MD5

Currently, the algorithm parameter is ignored by the Google Authenticator implementations.

=== Digits ===

OPTIONAL: The *digits* parameter may have the values 6 or 8, and determines how long of a one-time passcode to display to the user. The default is 6.

Currently, the digits parameter is ignored by the Google Authenticator implementations.

=== Counter ===

REQUIRED if TYPE is *hotp*: The *counter* parameter is required when provisioning a key for use with HOTP. It will set the initial counter value.

=== Period ===

OPTION only if TYPE is *totp*: Defines a period that a TOTP code will be valid for, in seconds. The default value is 30. 

Currently, the period parameter is ignored by the Google Authenticator implementations.